What Dwells Below - Project Overview

=== Main Design ===
What Dwells Below (WDB) is intended to be a kind of mashup of RuneScape and Heroes of Hammerwatch. While maintaining gamepad focused gameplay and a 2D art-style more reminiscent of Heroes of Hammerwatch than RuneScape, the game will contain an extravagant number of skills and abilities that the Player can empower via gameplay. Skills like woodcutting, mining, and smithing will be used by the Player to gather resources and craft armaments to make their character stronger. Additionally, there will be a plethora of different weapons that each have individual experience and levels that grant larger bonuses for weapons of that specific type and smaller bonuses for all weapons (to encourage the Player to use a variety of different weapons).

Gameplay will take place split between two different main areas. First is the city (yet unnamed) area which contains a variety of vendors as well as skilling facilities like anvils and a public kitchen. The city has a static layout (remaining unchanged unless a certain action is performed such as progressing the main story or investing in city facility upgrades). The city area also contains the entrance to the second area; the dungeon. Upon choosing to enter the dungeon, the Player is taken to an interface to configure their loadout for their dungeon delve. Upon entering the dungeon, the Player cannot return to the city surface.

The second main area is, of course, the dungeon. Unlike the city, the layout of the dungeon is randomly generated each time the Player enters the dungeon. The main objectives of dungeon diving are to collect materials/resources, gain experience, and to reach lower floors of the dungeon. Each floor should have a stairway leading to the next floor and a crystal by the entrance of each floor that functions as a teleport system to allow the Player to return to their lowest floor reached at will. While each floor's layout is random, the enemies and resources found on each level as well as the visual aesthetics of each individual floor should remain consistent between delves. Each floor will contain enemies to kill and resources to gather as well as a variety of randomly appearing facilities that allow the Player to send their resources and gear obtained during the run back to the surface. Gear sent to the surface is analyzed and able to be recreated indefinitely in future runs instead of being lost upon the death of the Player in the dungeon. The Player will only be able to store a certain number of gear items of a specific type, though.

Lore note: The Player doesn't actually enter the dungeon themselves. The Player instead pilots a Spirit Avatar by transferring their consciousness into the Avatar. The Avatars are bound by the magic of the dungeon and are unable to exit the dungeon in any way; forcing the Avatar to be destroyed or dispelled in order to return the Player's consciousness to their real body. This lore is the basis of how the XP system functions. When an Avatar connection is terminated, the Player loses most of their memory of their adventure, similar to how a person can typically only vaguely remember their dreams after waking.

While the Player does gain experience and resources while working their way through the dungeon, any resources that aren't sent to the surface prior to the Player's death are lost and only a small fragment of the XP gained by the Player is permanently applied to the Player Character each run. The goal of this mechanic is to make each delve feel like a new game adventure while rewarding the Player with smaller, permanent rewards for their efforts after the fact. This design choice is one of the key elements of the game and is intended to give the game strong replay value.

The second unique design element of the game will be how experience is rewarded to the Player throughout gameplay. While most games have a very straightforward system for player growth (Player does action -> action rewards XP -> when XP threshold is reached, Player levels up), WDB will feature a more dynamic and nuanced system focused around the gameplay style of the Player. For example, if a Player consistently kills enemies in close range with little regard for their positioning, their defense skill will increase while their dodge and parry skills remain unchanged. If the Player consistently kills enemies in close range while avoiding the front/attacking part of the enemy entirely, their dodge will increase while parry and defense remain unchanged. This dynamic XP balancing will be implemented in as many scenarios as can be imagined and implemented. This system is intended to automatically manage the Player's growth and build to their playstyle so that the game feels individually tailored to how they like to play.

=== Style ===
The game should feature a 2D art style similar to Heroes of Hammerwatch. The city should have a magical, medieval tone to it, similar to that in an isekai novel. The individual floors of the dungeon should have a variety of different art styles that aren't limited by the 'underground' constraint of the dungeon's physical location. Much like how dungeons in fantasy anime can have things like a sky and sunrise/sunset, the art style and tone of the dungeon floors can be as imaginative as desired so long as the end result is pleasing to the Player.

=== Notes ===

This document is a work in progress and will be added to as the project evolves. All important design choices as well as their reasoning should be added to this document for ease of access throughout development.

Combat Level (full game): derived display number from the combat skills that match the equipped weapon style (OSRS-style), not a separately trained Melee/Ranged/Magic skill. See Project_Overview_Template.txt §8.